Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on five steps of an interview.
This lecture we're going to discuss the five major components of the non-technical parts of an interview
.
Those include preparation arrival introduction communication and closing out the interview.
So let's start with preparation.
If you have a morning interview you're going to want to get up earlier than usual.
So for instance if usually wake up at 7:00 a.m. in your interviews at 8:30 try to wake up either an
hour or two hours before usual.
So wake up around 6:00 that way once the interview comes around you're fully prepared and awake to tackle
it head on.
Also the day before makes you confirm the appointment time and location.
Also make sure to bring extra resumes.
A lot of times you'll be informed of how many separate interviews you'll be having in a day.
For instance you'll know you'll have 4 half hour interviews.
So always bring resumes for every person you're going to be interviewing with.
They usually have some but sometimes they forget them or don't have them printed out for them.
So make sure you bring extra resumes as a tool for them to help interview you.
Also always make sure you have proper directions and the name of the person you should ask for when
you arrive.
Up next your actual arrival.
Make sure to arrive 10 to 12 minutes before the scheduled appointments.
The moment you arrive you should consider yourself as making impressions on prospective employers.
That includes everyone you meet.
From the moment you step out of your car you want to show confidence and smile and make a strong initial
impact also before meeting the receptionist.
You should visit the restroom.
View your appearance and take care of any business and then be aware of your body language.
It's really important that you come off as a nice confident person even before you actually start your
formal interview.
Then your introduction.
So make sure to give a firm handshake a smile while maintaining eye contact.
You should speak with confidence and energy and you should also try to determine that specific interviewers
communication style and adapt to it.
So for instance if he or she tends to break into smile frequently you should also be smiling often.
If he or she doesn't.
You want to avoid grinning too much so try to adapt to your interviewers communication style.
Up next communication in general.
So make good use of openings and what I mean by that is.
For example if the interviewer begins by saying Tell me about yourself you're already in control of
an early part of the meeting.
So deliver a quick 30 second personal overview of your background maybe beginning with education followed
by some sort of 60 to 90 second overview of your career.
So like X numbers of years doing this and that working for them and these other people ok.
After that you really want to make sure you communicate your skills qualifications and credentials clearly
then demonstrate your ability to adapt and learn.
You'll probably ask some sort of situational questions which will go over later in this course but questions
such as What have you.
Have you ever been a position where you had to make a tough decision or have you ever had a disagreement
with a former colleague.
Those kind of questions.
I remember plan prepare practice and rehearse.
There is no substitute for good practice for an interview.
Next closing make sure to ask follow up questions.
We actually have a list of potential follow up questions for you to use right before the technical section
so you can go in and check out that video.
And the list of questions for you to ask.
Then you'll want to review salary and compensation package after you receive an offer.
So that's it.
For those 5 steps.
Those are just the non-technical portions overviews.
So after this we're going to go into some especially challenging interview questions called the tough
interview questions lecture and we'll discuss some tough interview questions how to approach them how
best to answer them.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture